[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The day should
be the sunrise.
It should be the beginning
of great thought.
>> I wake up in the morning
and I consciously create my day
the way I want it to happen.
Now sometimes, because my mind
is examining all the things
that I need to get done,
it takes me a little bit
to settle down and get to the
point of where I'm actually
intentionally creating my day.
But here's the thing.
When I create my day and out
of nowhere, little things
happen that are
so unexplainable,
I know that they are the process
or the result of my creation.
And the more I do
that, the more I
build a neural net in my brain
that I accept that that's
possible, gives me the
power and the incentive
to do it the next day.
>> My existence is the best
example of creating your own
reality.
Does that make sense?
>> Tell us.
>> Well, growing up deaf, people
have a different conception
of how or who you should be.
You're deaf.
We should feel sorry for you.
You need extra attention.
You need extra schooling.
You need extra care.
You need to be looked after.
Poor thing, she's deaf.
And for myself, I looked
at it in a normal way.
I had and decided I would
have a happy childhood.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And we all create
our own realities.
And we do that because
we are the observer.
We are each the own
observer of our own reality.
And each of our
individual consciousnesses
creates our own
individual reality
in the most amazing way.
My son, Evan, the
physicist says no.
It's an additive thing.
If I'm holding one
reality and someone else
is holding another reality--
I mean, it's the Super
Bowl this afternoon.
And the reality that
the Eagles are holding
is a different reality than
what the Patriots are holding.
And only one of
those realities are
going to be the real reality.
So there's some
additive and there
are interference patterns.
>> One of the things that comes
up about creating realities is,
what happens when there are
two people each creating
a different reality?
What happens?
What goes on there?
Well, the first thing to
realize is that the idea
that you create
your own reality--
if by you, you mean that
egoic person that you think
is running your show
creates your reality,
it's probably wrong.
It's probably not
that you that's
creating the reality at all.
The you that really is
creating the reality
is what I call the gooey,
in-between the frame stuff.
That's the true you.
>> The place from where
we choose to create my own
reality, that place of
consciousness is a very special
non-ordinary state of being,
where the subject objects
pretend to disappear.
The samadhi or satori that
I was telling you about.
And it is from this non-ordinary
state that I choose.
And therefore, the ordinary
exaltation of the new wager
also disappeared
until it was forced
to face the reality that there
is really, no free lunch.
We have to meditate and
reach this non-ordinary state
subconsciousness
before we become
the creator of our own reality.
That took a while.
But now, I think finally,
people are recognizing
that there is no shortcut.
But the cut is not
that long, either.
It's not that hard.
We have been engaging
in creativity
for a very long time.
We have created a great amount
of art and music, even science.
Great amount of it.
So there are many people
who are experienced
with creative process
that eventually leads
to this discontinuous leap
towards this non-ordinary state
of consciousness.
>> The connection between
the quantum physicist
and the ne'er do well on the
street is that both of them
have the power to
create reality.
One knows it.
The other is ignorant of it.
How does science disperse
this good news to everyone
and yet, maintain the ethics of
being scientifically absolute
and provable time
and time, again?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If we keep quantum physics
and the understanding very
simple for the layperson, that
our observation has a direct
effect on our world, I think
if we keep it very simple then
people can get about the
business of beginning
to practice the
skill of observation.
>> Hey.
Wow.
You got a lot of
shots to develop?
>> No.
>> Oh, bummer.
Well, I'll catch you later.
>> See, the subatomic world
responds to our observation,
but the average person loses
their attention span every six
to 10 seconds per minute.
So that doesn't leave a lot of
room for our attention span.
So how can the
very large respond
to someone who doesn't
have the ability
to even focus and concentrate?
Maybe we're just poor observers.
Maybe we haven't mastered
the skill of observation.
And maybe it is a skill.
And maybe we're so addicted
to the external world
and so addicted to the
stimulus and response
to the external
world that the brain
is beginning to work
out of response, instead
of out of creation.
If we're given the
proper knowledge
and the proper understanding and
given the proper instruction,
we should begin to see
measurable feedback
in our life.
If you make the effort to sit
down and design a new life
and you make it the
most important thing
and you spend time every day
feeding it like a gardener
feeds the seed, you
will produce fruit.
>> We are running the holodeck.
We are collectively--
it's there.
It has such flexibility that
anything you can imagine,
it will create.
And you learn.
Your intention causes
this thing to materialize
once you're conscious enough.
>> Yeah, so what
is consciousness?
>> What is consciousness?
>> Well, consciousness is a
very difficult thing to define.
>> Consciousness is
the ground being.
Therefore, it is the
one and the original.
The chicken and
the egg question,
however, is very important.
For example, how does
this one consciousness
become a subject/object
split experience?
>> What is consciousness?
Where does it come from?
>> People have been trying to
explain consciousness and try
to figure out what
exactly it is.
What it means for
us as human beings.
Why we even have it.
On a simple way of defining it,
is it has to do with awareness.
And, in particular, it has to
do with awareness of the self.
That's at least, how
we, as human beings,
have self-consciousness.
So that when we
look in the mirror,
we recognize that it's
ourselves that we're
looking at and not some other
person or some other animal.
>> There's quantum coherence
among proteins in the brain
to give us the unitary
nature of self.
How we have only one sense
of self in our brains,
despite the fact that
there are processes
going on all over the
place within the brain.
>> Well, I'm going to give you
an answer that you're not going
to be happy with.
And I'm not happy
with it, either.
I just don't know what more
to say about it at the moment.
One can use all kinds
of other words--
awareness, self-awareness,
sentience, feelings.
What people call
qualia in philosophy.
These just seem, to
me, synonyms for if.
They're not elucidating what's
going on at the bottom of it.
Let it suffice to say this,
I'm putting myself back
on the border, again.
The phenomenon of
consciousness seems, to me,
one of the points at
which the collision
between the
scientistic worldview
and various
anti-scientistic worldviews
are going to be the most acute.
And it's exactly for
this reason that I
think it's an enormously
important phenomenon
to think about.
>> What is consciousness?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I define consciousness
according to Penrose's view.
It's a particular
type of self-collapse
of the wave function.
Now, as you know, things
can be in superposition
of multiple possible
states or location.
That's quantum superposition,
and that's the natural state
in the quantum world.
Now, we don't see that
in our classical world.
Why not?
Well, one explanation is
that conscious observation
causes collapse.
That's the Copenhagen
interpretation.
Another is that
every superposition
branches off and
forms a new universe--
the multiple-worlds hypothesis.
Another is that interaction
of superposition
with the environment
causes decoherence.
And the fourth possibility
is that superpositions
grow until they meet some
kind of natural threshold
inherent in nature, which
causes them to convert
from the quantum-superposition
state to the classical state.
There are several types
of these theories, which
are called objective reduction,
an objective threshold
for quantum-state reduction.
One is, if this system
grows too large,
that's the
Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber, GRW,
theory.
Another is Roger
Penrose's idea that--
well, first, he starts
with the question, what
is superposition,
and he says it's
a separation in fundamental
reality at the most
basic level.
So much like the
multiple-worlds view,
the separate-- the universe
separates and begins
to separate but that these
separations are bubbles,
if you will, in reality
at the most basic level
are unstable and,
after a while, will
collapse to one or the other
and that this type of collapse,
this type of objective
reduction that
occurs due to this
instability in the separation
of the universe,
is consciousness.
And it can only happen in
very special circumstances,
because you need a system that's
isolated from the environment.
So it doesn't-- it
has to be protected,
so it doesn't decohere, and it
has to be large enough to reach
this threshold.
The threshold is given by--
it's inversely related to the
size of the superposition.
So something very small like
an electron superposition,
if protected from decoherence,
would take 10 million years
to reach threshold,
and then it would
have a very dull, tiny
moment of consciousness.
Something very large will
reach threshold quickly,
and in the brain, we think
that quantum computations
occur which reach threshold
roughly at 25 milliseconds.
So 40 times a second, we
have conscious moments--
collapses, these
self-collapses in which
the superpositions collapse
to the classical world.
And it's a process
occurring at the most basic
fundamental level of the
universe, at the Planck scale
basically, connected to the
brain by quantum computations
occurring in our brains.
>> What is your simple
definition of consciousness?
>> What is a simple
[CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS]
[CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS]
>> I hate weddings.
[MUSIC - "WEDDING MARCH"]
[SPECTATORS APPLAUDING]
A wedding?
Come on, Frank.
>> This is a good assignment,
if you'd see it that way.
>> What's to see?
I do.
[SMOOCHES] They did.
>> Ah, god, Amanda.
I mean, you live in your
past, and everything with you
is about what happened.
You hate churches.
You hate weddings.
You hate guys.
[SIGHS]
>> Consciousness, we have
great trouble defining it.
To me, consciousness is a
byproduct of spirit entering
dense matter, but we
have a long, long way
to grow before we
get to the stage
where it is meaningful for
us to ask the question,
will we know God?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Most people think of God as
that great figure in the sky
with a white beard who's
scrutinizing the human race
from above.
They see us here on Earth as
in some form of neutral testing
ground, where we're placed
by God for a period,
and God watches from above
registering the scores
on his laptop as to whether
we perform according
to his designs or whether
we're "offending him,"
as it's put, an absolutely
outrageous idea.
How could we offend
God, the type of God
that people believe in?
How could it matter
so much to him?
How could it, above all,
matter that he would find it
so serious a situation
that he could condemn us
to an eternity of suffering?
These are bizarre ideas,
but obviously they
have a great hold on the
fears and the limitations
and the insecurities
of people, which
is why religion can
play so effectively,
whether deliberately
or otherwise,
on those insecurities.
People fall into
line very readily
when they're threatened
by these cosmic sentences
of everlasting punishment.
>> How in the Ten Commandments
could we have possibly created
a mind that could
transcend space and time?
No, we're too busy keeping
our emotions in check
to ever dream of
infinite possibilities.
And maybe that is the
ultimate conspiracy.
>> Even though a given person
may have long ago thrown off
the trappings of religion, they
still live in the religious
mold, and they
don't even know it,
but their whole conception
of how reality works is all
something that has been
molded by religion.
So until you get that
out of your system,
you can't ever make a go of
an evolutionary perspective.
>> I mean, I had an incident
once in Australia some years
ago, and I was--
you know, I was talking about
the heaven-and-hell idea,
and this young man of 20
years of age or so said to me,
you know, that was really
interesting, but thank God,
he said, I'm-- "thank God"--
I am not religious, he said.
I said, is that so?
And he said, yeah,
I'm not religious.
My parents had no belief, and
I grew up without any beliefs
at all.
And he had told me
the previous day
that his father had died
when he was eight years old.
So I said, do you
mind me asking,
where did they tell you your
father went when he died?
He said, well, they told
me he went to heaven.
I said, that sounds suspiciously
like a religious view to me.
And I went down
through the list,
20 things or so-- you know,
belief in right or wrong,
retribution for good and
bad deeds, et cetera--
and on every single
one of them, he
passed with flying colors as
a person with a profoundly
religious outlook on reality.
He was never in a church in
this life, synagogue or mosque,
but a perfect religious person.
>> Religion gets you off
the hook of living it.
It becomes-- for example,
religion does not
have eminent domain over God.
Religion is simply the study
of God, the mystery of God,
and then endeavoring to
take from scraps of people
all about interpretation
and put it--
and, well, it must
mean this, and so
we're going to fast
today, and we're
going to wear-- we're going
to cover ourselves up,
we're going to uncover
ourselves up, and if we do this,
this is what God
is pleased about.
But you know,
that's just hogwash.
And, so, pleasing God gets
us off of the hook of living.
I mean, the very
fact that we had
to have somebody die for our
sins is sort of a rip-off,
don't you think?
I mean, I think
we already really
should have had the privilege
of living out our own sins,
and by virtue of
experience, be enriched
with wisdom because of them.
And I don't see how
evolution and how we can ever
grow and become astounding
beings unless we
are fraught with the
blight of experience that
is-- that is bad and harmful
and all those things,
because only then have we really
achieved the wisdom that allows
us to understand everybody.
>> One of the problems with
organized religions is that
there is this sense
of separateness,
that it's only good to be a
Protestant or that people who
are Catholics are the only
people who know the way.
And I think now our current
understanding of quantum
physics is this understanding
of complete unity
and so that we have to
derive our spirituality
from a sense of unity.
>> I use the pun "funda-mental"
with a hyphen to mean
the fundamental level
of the universe,
because at the most basic level,
there's a mentality at this
most basic level.
So, you know,
fundamental religions
that focus on only their
approach to the exclusion
of others and are self-righteous
and dogmatic, I think
is a very bad thing.
>> The method in science is
to produce a conjecture about
reality, and then you set out
hammer and tongs to disprove
it.
In that process, you will
be able to strip away
the accretions and
the peripherals
and hopefully get at a
core that's hard and fast.
And as somebody said yesterday
here at a conference, you know,
90% of new knowledge is going to
the garbage bin in a few years
anyway, and that's the
way it ought to be.
Now, the single
exception to that
in the field of human
endeavor has been religion,
because religion says, oh,
we have all the truth already
right from day one,
and, therefore,
it can't ever change.
Therefore, we can't
set out to refute it.
And because it has
never set out to refute
the peripheral aspects
of its presuppositions,
religion has become
more and more
irrelevant to the
evolution of human thought.
>> Mustard seed--
[CLEARS THROAT] this parable
is a brilliant parable
to an age in which
there was no science.
So he says to his disciples
that the kingdom of heaven
is not in the sky,
and, look, many
will say that it is here, it is
there, but in reality, he said,
all right, a mustard seed
is the tiniest of seeds.
The kingdom of heaven--
and what does that mean?
It means who we really are, and
where we have our eternalness,
where we have our alwaysness,
where we have always
been and always will be,
that that self is smaller
than the mustard seed and that
the kingdom to which God lives
is as small.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Jesus knew this 2000 years ago.
Now, how is he going to
teach a bunch of fishermen,
tax collectors, and riders on
asses about quantum physics?
And the key ingredient, the
key to the kingdom of heaven,
is self, and where do we find
self in this morass of tiny?
The observer.
So what did he know
that you do not know?
And he knew it 2000
years ago, and so
did the mystery schools
2000 years ago know this.
What are we really?
We have determined it.
What are we ultimately?
We have determined it,
that we are even smaller
than the smallest phase of
time from zero-point energy
to its recognition.
So how small are we?
We are 0.0, and we
fluctuate off of that zero.
>> So when we say the kingdom
of heaven is within you,
as Jesus put it, rather
than God was within you,
then we're talking about
a complete identification
of our being with the divine
source that's at the origin
of it all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The only reason that there
is an addiction to religion
as some way out of a
mistake, does that diminish
the greatness of God?
No.
It actually opens the
corral and lets got to be
eternal, absolute.
The law that is given
to us is the same laws
given to that of those
people on Sirius,
given to us by the people in
the rose universe or the eye
universe.
You know, and your
Hubble Telescope
is finally seeing galaxies
of immeasurable beauty
that, in our heart and in
our mind, we long to engage.
It's exciting to meet beings
of greater mind or lesser mind.
And where does it end?
It doesn't end.
We do not want to
accept responsibility.
accept our greatness.
So it's very easy for
any system of thought,
religious or otherwise,
that comes along,
it's very easy to play on that,
to play on our insecurities,
to assure us all is well,
we'll all be taken care of.
We lap that up.
So don't blame religion.
Blame our own insecurities,
which has allowed religion
to flourish and
which has allowed
so many systems of thought that
are disempowering to flourish
throughout human history.
That's why we can't
get out of it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I now present to you Mr. and
Mrs. Richard Buck Filipowski!
[SPECTATORS CHEERING]
[CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS]
[MUSIC - "WEDDING MARCH"]
[SPECTATORS APPLAUDING]
>> Experiencing something in the
present day that is a trigger
to something that is very
emotionally charged for us,
so now we have become even more
disconnected from the reality
of what actually is.
>> The nerves rain like a
thunderstorm in our brain
and its electrical strikes
through our synaptic skies
to the Earth of our being
creates a chemical cascade
in our body that prepares our
body for conquest, achievement,
a relishing experience
emotionally,
but we would have no conquest.
Indeed, we would
have no relishment
if we had not first had that
hologram and those chemicals
that made us or that
changed us from being
fearful entities into fearless
entities after a dream.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[WIND BLOWING]
The frontal lobe is the crowning
achievement of the human brain.
Frontal lobe.
This frontal lobe allows
us a distinguishedness
to change our minds.
>> So it begs the question,
what is free will?
We really think that we have
free will when we make choices,
but there was an experiment
done with people who
had damage to the frontal lobe.
The frontal lobe is
the area of the brain
that we use to really
make free-will choices.
And these people all
had damage or strokes
to their frontal lobe, and
they put them in a situation
where they said, this
is a test, and there
is no right or wrong
answer, but you
can choose whatever you want.
Now, all the people who had
damage to the frontal lobe
could not choose.
They could not choose
one answer or the other.
They could not make a choice.
When they repeated the
experiment and they said,
now there's a right
or wrong answer,
the moment they said there's
a right or wrong answer,
these people were
able to choose.
So it has to cause us to
begin to question if we ever
really choose based on
free will, or are we
just choosing what
we already know?
And that free will
means that we stop
enough to be able to
separate all the knowns
and speculate possibilities
and potentials that
exist in the unknown.
When we live by those automatic
circuits that are already
wired known patterns
of association,
we're really not making
any free-will choices.
We're choosing based
on what we know,
and as long as we choose
based on what we know,
we'll always get what we know.
>> So at the level of the brain,
you've got lots of neurons
interacting locally.
They produce a
global intelligence
that's associated with
the brain as a whole.
But then when you look
at individual neurons,
the interior of the neurons
is a different physical
implementation of
the same principle.
And, in fact, at every
scale as you go down,
like Chinese boxes nested
the one in the other,
each individual processing
element at one scale
can be shown to be composed of
innumerable smaller processing
elements within it.
And, ultimately, at
the lowest level,
the analogy is not
going to be obvious,
but, mathematically,
it's rigorous.
At the lowest level, the
process whereby proteins fold
obeys essentially the same
mathematical self-organizing
dynamic as how a neural
network processes information.
So the folding of a
protein is mathematically
identical to the generation
of a thought, if you will,
or the solving of a problem,
except that when you get down
to that level, the
process whereby
the so-called
neighbor-to-neighbor
interactions take
place is subtly
different in incorporating
quantum effects.
And that's really where the
notion of the quantum brain
comes in, not that the
brain as a whole entity
is a quantum entity, but
rather that quantum effects
at the lowest level are not only
capable of but, of necessity,
are amplified upwards because
of this nested Chinese-box
arrangement of the
nervous system.
>> Consciousness enters this
physiology and animates this
physiology by essentially
bubbling up through each
individual cell and through
the DNA within each cell.
The DNA is a
quantum-mechanical entity,
but it's a macromolecule.
It's got one foot in the
macroscopic classical world
and the other foot deep in
the quantum-mechanical world.
It's the bridge, if you wish,
between quantum mechanics
and matter.
But having one foot in
quantum mechanics, which
is the world of
thought, it basically
transduces those impulses
of thought into chemicals
and into the chemistry,
biochemistry, electrophysiology
of thought.
>> Jeff's approach is that
quantum randomness influences
neurons at the level
of microtubules,
and I would say that
it's more than that.
I would say that quantum effects
act in concert coherently,
more globally in
the brain, that we
may have macroscopic
quantum states
throughout large reasons--
large regions, if
not the whole brain,
that are basically
identified with
or influence consciousness.
You go down a level
of neural networks,
then to neurons, and inside the
neurons to the microtubules,
which are acting as
quantum computers,
and then you look at the
individual components
of the microtubule,
which is a protein which
changes its shape like that.
So on, off, yes, no,
one or zero, however you
want to make a computer
analogy, and that
is the bit-- the fundamental
bit inside neurons,
inside cells that
controls what's going on.
Now, that in turn
is controlled by--
there are little pockets inside
the proteins in which electrons
are free to roam.
They're non-polar, so
they're able to roam,
and if they're in one
position, say an electron here
and here, the proteins open.
If it's here and
here, it's closed.
So the movements of these
individual electrons,
which are governed by what are
called van der Waals forces,
control the state of the
protein, which in turn computes
in the microtubule, which in
turn controls the neuron, which
in turn leads to the brain
functioning as a whole.
Well, the electron movement
of these van der Waals forces
are also related to
the quantum field
and the zero-point energies
in the quantum vacuum.
>> Through the workings
of the nervous system
and the particular way that it
implements quantum effects--
very distinct specific way,
not general, not fuzzy,
not imprecise--
that it absolutely does
open the door for free will
being a possibility
that does not
violate modern scientific
tenets and that's
consistent to a certain
extent with people's
subjective impression
that we do have free will.
>> What separates us from all
other species is the ratio
of our frontal lobe to
the rest of the brain.
The frontal lobe is an area of
the brain that's responsible
for firm intention, for
decision-making, for regulating
behavior, for inspiration.
It is the seat of what
causes us to take information
from our environment and process
it and store it in our brain
to make decisions
or choices that
are different than the
decisions and choices
that we've made in the past.
>> Free will resides
in our frontal cortex,
and we can train
ourself to have--
to make more-intelligent
choices and to be
conscious of the
choices we're making.
>> Most people use very little
bit of their frontal lobe,
so most people already
have a lobotomy,
and most people don't
really pay attention.
So everybody has ADD.
And the result of it
is that it's easier
to use the already-wired
circuits and the stimulus
and chemistry that's
involved with using
those automatic circuits
than to stop those circuits
and begin to look at
possibilities and potentials.
So the point is that, when we're
using those automatic programs
that are already
wired, they take place
in the rest of the brain,
and the frontal lobe
gets to go to sleep.
So even though we think we
have the free will to choose,
we don't really have free will.
What we're doing is choosing
what we already know.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The brain is made up of tiny
nerve cells called neurons.
These neurons have
tiny branches that
reach out and connect to other
neurons to form a neural net.
Each place where they
connect is integrated
into a thought or a memory.
>> A neural net basically has to
do with a group of neurons that
are functioning together
that have a particular type
of function.
People have looked
at these in terms
of what have been called
cognitive modules, so
that there may be neural
nets, a group of nerve
cells in either
the same structure
or across the brain, that
have certain functions that
allow us to process information
in a particular way.
>> Now, the brain builds up
all its concepts by the law
of associate of memory.
For example, ideas,
thoughts, and feelings
are all constructed
and interconnected
in this neural net, and all
have a possible relationship
with one another.
The concept and the
feeling of love,
for instance, is stored
in this vast neural net,
but we build the concept of love
for many other different ideas.
Some people have love
connected to disappointment.
When they think about
love, they experience
the memory of pain, sorrow,
anger, and even rage.
Rage may be linked
to hurt, which
may be linked to a
specific person, which
then is connected back to love.
>> Every observation can
be looked upon as a quantum
measurement.
This quantum measurement
produces memory.
We always perceive
something after reflection
in the meter of memory.
It is this reflection
in the meter of memory
that gives us that sense
of I-ness, who I am.
>> The brain does not know the
difference between what it sees
in its environment
and what it remembers,
because the same specific
neural nets are then firing.
We know, physiologically, that
nerve cells that fire together
wire together.
If you practice something
over and over again,
those nerve cells have a
long-term relationship.
If you get angry
on a daily basis,
if you get frustrated
if you suffer on a daily
basis, if you give reasons
for the victimization
in your life,
you're rewiring
and reintegrating
that neural net
on a daily basis,
and that neural net now has
a long-term relationship
with all those other nerve
cells called an identity.
We also know that nerve cells
that don't fire together
no longer wire together.
They lose their
long-term relationship,
because every time we interrupt
the thought process that
produces a chemical
response in the body--
every time we interrupt
it, those nerve cells
that are connected to
each other start breaking
the long-term relationship.
>> If we practice our mental
rehearsal and our skill
in being able to do it,
we'll show that certain brain
circuits will grow as
a result of our effort.
We'll get-- it'll get easier
to do, in other words.
If we accept that
idea, then it will
allow us to go back the next day
and do it with more certainty
and with more acceptance.
That in itself is no
different than praying.
You see, there is no
religious text that
says thought doesn't matter.
There's no religious
text that doesn't say,
your prayer and your intention
shouldn't be answered by God.
But explaining how
that happens is
what quantum physics and
the observer is all about.
But, still, when
we can make thought
more real than anything
else, our brain
is designed to do that.
The frontal lobe with
its enormous space
is the alter in which
we place the thought,
and it gives us the
permission to hold the thought
for an extended period of
time, and it lowers the volume
to the external stimuli.
We lose track of time and space.
That's the moment we're
stepping into the quantum field.
That's the moment that
now we're making thought
more real than anything else.